---
title: the This keyword
date: '2019-08-25'
time: '☕️☕️'
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Lang-8"
category: "Languages"
tags:
  - "JavaScript"
description: "We take a look at the This keyword with Kyle Simpson."
---

This article was done using my notes from Kyles Simpson, 2014, This & Object prototypes. It is a part of a very well written serie on Javascript that every developer should take a look at.

## This ?

**this** is a binding that is made when a function is invoked, and what it references is determined entirely by the call-site where the function is called. In other words, **this** has everything to do with the manner in which the function is called.

### The call-site

Finding the call-site is generally "go locate where a function is called from", but it is not always easy, as certain coding patterns can obscure the true call-site.

### Four rules

Once the call-site examined, four rules can be applied to understand what **this** references.

1. The function was called with **new** ? **this** is the newly constructed object.

```
var bar = new foo();

```

2. The function called with **call** or **apply** (explicit binding), even hidden inside a **bind** (hard binding). **this** is the explicitly specified object.

```
var bar = foo().call( object );

```

3. The function is called with a context (implicit binding), otherwise known as an owning or containing object. **this** is that containing object.

```
var bar = object.foo();

```

4. The function is called with undecorated function reference (default binding). If in **strict mode**, **this** is undefined, otherwise **this** references the global object.

```
var bar = foo();

```

Instead of the four standard binding rules, ES6 arrow-functions use lexical scoping for **this** binding, which means they inherit the **this** binding from its enclosing function or global scope.

```
function foo() {

  return ( a ) => {

    console.log( this.a );

  }

};

var obj1 = {

  a: 2

}


var bar = foo.call( obj1 );

bar; // 2;
```
