---
title: Prototypes
date: '2019-08-28'
time: '☕️'
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Lang-11"
category: "Languages"
tags:
  - "JavaScript"
description: "We take a look at Prototypes with Kyle Simpson."
---

This article was done using my notes from Kyles Simpson, 2014, This & Object prototypes. It is a part of a very well written serie on Javascript that every developer should take a look at.

## [[Prototypes]]

When attempting a property access on an object that does not have that property, the object's internal [ [ Prototype ] ] linkage defines where [ [ GET ] ] operation should look next. This cascading linkage from object to object essentially defines "prototype chain" (somewhat similar to a nested scope chain) of objects to traverse for property resolution.

All normal objects have the built-in Object.prototype as the top of the prototype chain, where property resolution will stop if not found anywhere prior in the chain. **toString()**, **valueOf()**, and several other common utilities exist on the **Object.property** object, explaining how all objects in the language are able to access them.

Consider:

```
var myObject: = {

  a: 2

}

var anotherObject = Object.create( myObject );

{"a" in anotherObject}; // true

```

The most common way to get two objects linked to each other is using the **new** keyword with a function call. The "another object" that the **new** object is linked to happens to be the object referenced by the arbitrarily named **.prototype** property of the function called with **new**.

```
function Foo() {
  // ...
}

var a = new Foo();

Object.getPrototypeOf( a ) === Foo.prototype; // true

```

Functions called with **new** are often called "constructors", despite the fact that they are not instantiating a class as **constructors** do in traditional class-oriented languages.

```
function Foo() {
  // ...
}

Foo.prototype.constructor === Foo; // true

var a = new Foo();

a.constructor === Foo; // true

```

While these JavaScript mechanisms resemble "class instantiation" and "class inheritance" from traditional class-oriented languages, the key distinction is that in JavaScript, no copies are made. Rather, objects end up linked to each other via an internal [ [ Prototype ] ] chain.

According to Kyle Simpson "Inheritance" and all the other OO terms just do not make sense when considering how JavaScript actually works. Instead, "delegation" is a more appropriate term, because these relationships are not copies but delegation links.
