---
title: What are Microservices
date: '2019-10-15'
time: '☕️'
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Arch-1"
category: "Architecture"
tags:
  - "Microservices"
description: "Lets take look at Microservices as a concept with Sam Newman."
---

This article was done using my notes from Sean Newman, 2015, Building Microservices, O'Reilly.

## What are Microservices ?

Microservices are small, autonomus services that work together.

### Small, and Focuses on Doing One Thing Well

Cohesion is an important concept when we think about microservices. According to Robert C. Martin's definition of the **Single Responsability Principe**, one should strive to "gather together those things that change for the same reason, and separate those things that change for different reasons.".

Microservices take this same approach to independent services. Wee focus our service boundaries on business boundaries, making it obvious where code lives for a given piece of functionality. By keeping this service focused on an explicit boundary, we avoid the temptation for it to grow too large, with all the associated difficulties that this an introduce.

### Autonomus

A microservice is a separate entity. It might be deployed as an isolated service on a platform as a service or it might be its own operating system process. All communication between the services themselves are via network calls, to enforce separation between the services and avoid the perils of tight coupling.

These services need to be able to change independently of each other, and be deployed by themselves without requiring consumers to change. Our service exposes an application programming interface (API), and collaborating services communicate with us via those APIs.

## Key Benefits

### Technology Heterogeneity

With a system composed of multiple, collaborating services, we can decide to use different technologies inside each one. This allows us to pick the right tool for each job. With microservices, we are also able to adopt technology more quickly, and understand how new advancements may help us.

### Resilience

In a monolithic service, if the service fails, everything stops working. With microservices, we can build systems that handle the total failure of services and degrade functionality accordingly.

### Scaling

With small services, we can scale those services that need scaling, allowing to run other parts of the system on small, less powerful hardware. With a large, monolithic service, we have to scale everything together. One small part of our overall system is constrained in performance, but if that behavior is locked up in a giant monolithic application, we have to handle scaling everything as a piece.

### Ease of Deployment

With microservices, we can make a change to a single service and deploy it independently of the rest of the system. This allows us to get our code deployed faster. If a problem does occur, it can be isolated quickly to an individual service, making fast rollback easy to achieve.

### Organization Alignment

Microservices allow to better align architecture to our organization, helping us minimize the number of people working on any one codebase to hit the sweet spot of team size and productivity.

### Composability

Microservices open up opportunities for reuse of functionality. With microservices, we allow for our functionality to be consumed in different ways for different purposes.

### Optimizing for Replaceability

With our individual services being small in size, the cost to replace them with a better implementation, or even delete them altogether, is much easier to manage. Teams using microservice approaches are comfortable with completely rewriting services when required, and just killing a service when its no longer needed.

## What about Service-Oriented Architecture ?

Service-oriented architecture (SOA) is a design approach where multiple services collaborate to provide some end set of capabilities. SOA emerged as an approach to combat the challenges of the large monolithic applications. It is an approach that aims to promote the reusability of software; two or more end-applications, for example, could both use the same services.
