---
title: Coercion
date: '2019-09-01'
time: '☕️☕️☕️'
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Lang-14"
category: "Languages"
tags:
  - "JavaScript"
description: "We take a look at Coercion with Kyle Simpson."
---

This article was done using my notes from Kyles Simpson, 2015, Types & Grammar. It is a part of a very well written serie on Javascript that every developer should take a look at.

## Coercion

_Coercion_ is a synonym of type conversion or type casting. It can either be _explicit_ or _implicit_. JavaScript coercions always result in one of the scalar primitive values, like **string, number, or boolean**. There is no coercion that results in a complex value like **object or function**. "Boxing", which wraps scalar primitive values in their object counterparts is not really coercion in an accurate sense.

According to Kyle Simpson, coercion has a bad reputation, but it is actually quite useful in many cases. An important task for a responsible JS developers would be to tke the time to learn all the ins and outs of coercion to decide which parts will help to improve their code, and which parts they really should avoid.

Explicit coercion is code where it is obvious that the intent is to convert a value from one type to another. The benefit is improvement in readability and maintainability of code by reducing confusion.

Consider:

```
var a = 42;

var c = String( a );
```

Implicit coercion that is "hidden" as a side effect of some other operation, where it is not as obvious that the type conversion will occur. While it may seem that _implicit_ coercion is the opposite of _explicit_ and is thus bad, actually _implicit_ can also help improving the readability of code.

Consider:

```
var a = 42;

var c = a + "";
```

## Abstract Value Operations

### ToString

When any **non-string** value is coerced to a string representation, the conversion is handled by the **ToString** abstract operation.

```
var a = [1,2,3];

a.toString(); // "1,2,3"
```

In many cases, JSON stringification will behave basically the same as toString() conversions, except that the serialization result is always a **string**. However, some values are not _JSON-safe_: **undefineds, functions, symbols, and objects with circular references**.

```
JSON.stringify( true ); // "true"
```

### ToNumber

If any non-number value is used a way that requires it to be a number, ES5 spec defines the **ToNumber** operation. If it fails, the result is **NaN**.

### ToBoolean

All of JavaScript's values can be divided into two categories:

1. Values that will become false if coerced to boolean
2. Everything else will become true

Falsy values list: **undefined, null, false, +0, -0, and NaN, ""**. All these values, once coerced will be **false**.

## Explicit Coercion

Explicit coercion refers to type of conversions that are obvious and explicit.

### String <==> Numbers

```
var a = 42;
var b = String( a ); // Equivalent to a.toString();
b; // "42"

var c = "3.14";
var d = Number( c ); // Equivalent to c+;
d; // 3.14
```

#### Parsing Numeric Strings

```
var a = "42";
var b = "42px";

Number( a ); // 42
parseInt( a ); // 42

Number( b ); // NaN
parseInt( b ); // 42
```

Parsing should not be seen as a substitute for coercion. These two tasks, while similar, have different purposes. Parse a string a number when you don't know/care what other non-numeric characters they may be on the right-hand side. Coerce a string (to a number) when the only acceptable values are numeric and something like "42px" should be rejected.

### \* ==> Boolean

```
var a = "0";
var b = [];
var c = {};

var d = "";
var e = 0;
var f = null;
var g;

Boolean( a ); // true
Boolean( b ); // true
Boolean( c ); // true

Boolean( c ); // false
Boolean( c ); // false
Boolean( c ); // false
Boolean( c ); // false
```

We could have used double-negate operator as well:

```
var a = "0";
var b = [];
var c = {};

var d = "";
var e = 0;
var f = null;
var g;

!!a; // true
!!b; // true
!!c; // true

!!d; // false
!!e; // false
!!f; // false
!!g; // false
```

Any of these **ToBoolean** coercions would happen _implicitly_ without the **Boolean() or !!**, if used in a boolean context such as an **if()** statement. But the goal here is to explicitly force the value to a boolean to make it clearer that the **toBoolean** coercion is intended.

## Implicit Coercion

Implicit coercion refers to type conversions that are hidden, with nonobvious side effects that implicitly occur from other actions.

The majority of complaints about "JavaScript coercion" are actually aimed at implicit coercion.

### Strings <==> Numbers

```
var a = 42;
var = a + b;
b; // 42
```

It is extremely common to (implicitly) coerce **number** to **string** with a + "" operation.

```
var a = [1,2];
var b = [3,4];
a + b; // "1,23,4"
```

According to ES5 spec, the + algorithm will concatenate if either operand is either already a string, or if the following steps produce a string representation. So, when + receives an **object** for either operand, it first calls the **toPrimitive** abstract operation on the value, which then calls the [ [ DefaultValue ] ] algorithm with a context hint of number.

To make it simple, if either operand to + is a string (or become one with the above steps), the operation will be **string** concatenation. Otherwise, it is always numeric addition.

**Implicit: \* => Booleans**

Let's look at some examples:

```
var a = 42;
var b = "abc";
var c;
var d = null;

if (a) {
    console.log("yep"); // yep
}

while (c) {
    console.log("nope, never runs");
}

c = d ? a : b;
c;              // "abc"

if ((a && b) || c) {
    console.log("yep") // yep
}
```

In all these contexts, the **non-boolean** values are implicitly coerced to their boolean equivalents to make the test decisions.

**Operators || and &&**

Both the **||** and **&&** operators perform a boolean test on the first operand (a or b). If the operand is not already a **boolean**, a normal **ToBoolean** coercion occurs, so that the test can be performed.

For the **||**, if the test is **true**, the **||** expression results in the value of the first operand (a or b). If the test is false, it results in the value of the second operand (b).

Inversely, for the **&&** operator, if the test is **true**, the **&&** expression results in the value of the second operand (b). If the test is **false**, the **&&** expression results in the value of the first operand (a or b).

## Loose Equals Versus Strict Equals

Loose equals is the == operator, while strict equals is the === operator. == allows coercion in the equality comparison and === disallows coercion.

If you use == loose equality to compare two values of different types, one or both of the values will need to be implicitly coerced. THis coercion happens so that both values eventually end up as the same type.

### Comparison: strings to number

```
var a = 42;
var b = '42';

a == b; // true
```

1. If Type(x) is Number and Type(y) is String, return the result of the comparison x == toNumber(y).
2. If Type(x) is String and Type(y) is Number, return the result of the comparison ToNumber(x) == y.

### Comparison: anything to boolean

```
var a = '42';
var b = true;

a == b; // false
```

1. If Type(x) is Boolean, return the result of the comparison toNumber(x) == y.
2. If Type(y) is Boolean, return the result of the comparison x == toNumber(y).

The Type(x) is **Boolean**, so it performs ToNumber(x), which coerces **true** to **1**. Now, 1 == "42 is evaluated. It will coerce **"42"** to **42**, and 1 == 42 is clearly **false**.

### Comparing: objects to nonobjects

1. If Type(x) is either String or Number and Type(y) is Object, return the return the result of the comparison x == ToPrimitive(y).
2. If Type(x) is Object and Type(y) is either String or Number, return the result of the comparison ToPrimitive(x) == y.

Consider:

```
var a = 42;
var b = [ 42 ];

a == b; // true
```

The [ 42 ] value has its **ToPrimitive** abstract operation called, which results in the **"42"** value. From there, it's just "42" == 42, which as we have already covered becomes 42 == 42, so **a** and **b** are found to be coercively equal.

Consider:

```
var a = 42;
var b = [ 42 ];

a == b; // true
```

The algorithm first calls **ToPrimitive** coercion on both values, and if the return result of either call is not a **string**, then both values are coerced to **number** values using the **ToNumber** operation rules, and compared numerically.

## Abstract Relational Comparison

It works the same as above written.

Consider:

```
var a = [ 42 ];
var b = [ "43" ];

a < b; // true
b < a; // false
```

However, if both values are strings for the < comparison, simple lexicographic (natural alphabetic) comparison on the characters is performed.

Consider:

```
var a = [ "42" ];
var b = [ "043" ];

a < b; // false
```
