---
title: Kubernetes core Concepts
date: '2019-10-17'
time: '☕️☕️☕'
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Arch-2"
category: "Architecture"
tags:
  - "Kubernetes"
description: "Lets take look at Kubernetes and its core concepts with Joseph Heck."
---

This article was done using my notes from Joseph Heck, 2018, Kubernetes for Developers, Packt.

## Concepts

### Container

Kubernetes is all about managing and orchestrating containers. A container is really a name for a set of Linux technologies. Containers, generally, implies that there is an image with everything needed to run a single process. In this context, a container is not only the image, but also the information about what to invoke and how to run it. Containers also act like they have their own network access.

When we want to write code to run under Kubernetes, we will always be talking about packaging it up and preparing it to run within a container. A container is a way to collect all the information together into a single image so that it can be easily moved around, installed, and run on a Linux operating system.

### Pod

A Pod is the smallest unit that Kubernetes manages and is the fundamental unit that the rest of the system is built on. A Pod is made up of one or more containers and information associated with those containers. It is important to know that a Pod is not intended to be treated as a durable, long-lived entity.

Pods allows for separate logic to manage responsabilities such as scale and availability. It is this separation of duties that enables Kubernetes to provide a means for self-healinf in the event of failures, and provide some auto-scaling capabilities.

### Namespaces

Pods are collected into namespaces, which are used to group Pods together for a variety of purposes. Namespaces can be used to provide quotas and limits around resource usage, have an impact on DNS names that Kubernetes creates internal to the cluster, and in the future may impact access control policies.

## Resources

### Node

A Node is a machine, typically running Linux, that has been added to the Kubernetes cluster. According to Kubernetes documentation, a cluster is "a set of machines, called nodes, that run containerized applications managed by Kubernetes. A cluster has at least one worker node and at least one master node.". It can be a physical or a virtual machine.

Kubernetes manages its resources across Nodes by tracking their resource usage, scheduling, starting (and if needed, restarting) Pods, as well as coordinating the other mechanisms that connect Pods together or exposing them outside the scluster.

### Networks

All Nodes in a Kubernetes cluster are expected to be connected to each other and share a private cluster-wide network. When Kubernetes runs containers within a Pod, it does so within this isolated network. Kubernetes is responsible for handling IP addresses, creating DNS entries, and making sure that a Pod can communicate with another POd in the same Kubernetes cluster. Depending on how your Kubernetes cluster was created, there are multiple avenues for opening up access to your software from outside the cluster with Services that include LoadBalance, NodePort, and Ingress.

## Controllers

When you interact with Kubernetes, you are asserting you want one or more resources to be in a certain state, with specific versions. Controllers are where the brains exist for tracking those resources and attempting to run your software as described.

There are a variety of controllers used within Kubernetes, the two mains are Deployments and ReplicaSets.

### ReplicaSet

A ReplicaSet wraps Pods, defining how many need to run in parallel. A ReplicaSet is commonly wrapped in turn by a deployment. ReplicaSet are critical to represent horizontal scaling, to represent the number of parallel Pods to run.

A ReplicaSet is associated with a Pod and indicates how many instances of that Pod should be running within the cluster. A ReplicaSet also implies that Kubernetes has a controller that watches the ongoing state and knows how many of your Pod to keep running.

### Deployment

The deployment controller wraps around and extends the ReplicaSet controller, and is primarily responsible for rolling out software updates and managing the process of that rollout when you update your deployment resource with new versions of your software. The deployment controller includes metadata settings to know how many Pods to keep running so that you can enable a seamless rolling update of your software by adding new versions of a container, and stopping old versions when requested.
