---
title: Lexical Scope
date: '2019-08-21'
time: '☕️'
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Lang-4"
category: "Languages"
tags:
  - "JavaScript"
description: "We take a look at how lexical scope works in JavaScript with Kyle Simpson."
---

This article was done using my notes from Kyles Simpson, 2014, Scope and Closures. It is a part of a very well written serie on Javascript that every developer should take a look at.

## Lexical Scope ?

Defining it somewhat circularly, lexical scope is scope that is defined at lexing time. In other words, lexical scope is based on where variables and blocks of scope are authored, by developers, at write time, and thus is set in stone by the time the lexer processes your code.

In simple words, lexical scope mean that scope is defined by author-time decisions of where functions are declared. The lexing phase of compilation is essentially able to know where and how all identifiers are declared, and thus predict how they will be looked up during execution.

For example:

```
  function foo(a) { // runs 1st

    var b = a * 2; // runs 2nd

    function bar(c) { runs 3rd

      console.log(a, b, c);

    }

    bar (b * 3);

  }

  foo(2); // 2, 4, 12
```

Two mechanisms in JavaScript can "cheat" lexical scope: **eval()** and **with**. The former can modify existing lexical scope (at runtime) by evaluating a string "code" that has one or more declarations in it. The latter essentially creates a whole new lexical scope (again, at runtime) by treating an object reference as a scope and that object's properties as scoped identifiers. For a detailed explanation on **with** take a look at this [article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/with).

As a reminder, these mechanisms have a downside. They defeat the engine's ability to perform compile-time optimizations regarding scope look-up, because the engine has to assume pessimisticaly that such optimizations will be invalid. Code will run slower as as a result of using either feature.

According to Kyle Simpsons, "Don't use them".
