---
title: What are Scopes ?
date: '2019-08-20'
time: '☕️'
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Lang-3"
category: "Languages"
tags:
  - "JavaScript"
description: "We take a look at how scopes work in JavaScript with Kyle Simpson"
---

This article was done using my notes from Kyles Simpson, 2014, Scope and Closures. It is a part of a very well written serie on Javascript that every developer should take a look at.

## Scope ?

According to Kyles Simpson, a scope is a set of rules that determines where and how a variable can be looked up, identified. This look-up can have different purposes. It can be used to assign variables, which is an LHS (lefthand-side) reference. We will see about that in a second. It can also be used for the purpose of retrieving its value, which is in this case an RHS (righthand-side) reference.

An LHS look-up is done when a variable appears on the lefthand side of an assignment operation.
An RHS look-up is done when a variable appears on the righthand side of an assignment operation. An RHS means "go get the value of...".

For example:

```
  console.log( a );
```

The reference to **a** is an RHS reference, because nothing is being assigned to **a** here. We try to retrieve the value of **a**, so that it can be passed to console.log(..)

By contrast:

```
   a = 2;
```

The reference is an LHS reference, because we don't care what the current value is, we simply want to find the variable as **a** target for the **= 2** assignment operation.

It might be easier to think about LHS and RHS as :
"Who is the target of assignment (LHS) ?"
"Who is the source of the assignment (RHS) ?"

Going back to our topic (scope...), LHS references result from assignment operations. Scope-related assignment can occur either with **=** operator or by passing arguments to function parameters.

```
  function foo(a) { // RHS

    console.log( a ); // RHS

  }

  foo( 2 ); // LHS, as a = 2
```

The JavaScript engine first compiles code before it executes, and in so doing, it splits up statement like **var a = 2;** into two separate steps:

1. First, **var a** to declare it in that scope. This is performed at the beginning, before code execution.

2. Later, **a = 2** to look up the variable (LHS reference) and assign to it if found.

Both LHS and RHS reference look-ups start at the currently executing scope, and if need be (if they don't find what they are looking for in the current scope), they work their way up the nested scope, one scope at a time, looking for the identifier, un they reach the global scope and stop, and either find it, or don't.

Unfulfilled RHS reference result in **ReferenceErrors** being thrown. Unfulfilled LHS references result in an automatic, implicity created global of that name (not in Strict Mode), or a **ReferenceError** is thrown.
