---
title: Concurrency with Goroutines
date: '2020-02-11'
time: '☕️'
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Lang-21"
category: "Languages"
tags:
  - "Go"
description: "Let's take a look at what is known as concurrent code and distinguish it from sequential code using Golang."
---

## Concurrency & Sequential

According to slikts (Github, 2020) "Concurrency is about independent computations that can be executed in an arbitrary order with the same outcome. The opposite of concurrent is sequential, meaning that sequential computations depend on being executed step-by-step to produce correct results.". Code written concurrently can be summarized as order-independent. It is executed "out of order". 

<sub>slikts, 2020. Concurrency Glossary, Github. https://slikts.github.io/concurrency-glossary/?id=author</sub>

So, making progress on more than one task simultaneously is coommonly known as concurrency and Go has interestingly a very rich support for concurrency. It makes use of goroutines and channels. We will take a look at channels in another chapter.

### Goroutinges

According to Caleb Doxsey (2012), a goroutine is a function that is capable of running concurrently with other functions. To create such a function in Go, we use the keyword **go** followed by the desired function.

```
package main

import "fmt"

func f(n int) {
  for i := 0; i < 10; i++ {
    fmt.Println(n, ":", i)
  }
}

func main() {
  go f(0)
  var input string
  fmt.Scanln(&input)
}
```

The goroutine is created when we call **go f(0)**. As Caleb Doxsey explains, when running a sequential program, we would execute all the statements in a function and then return to the next line following the invocation. With a goroutine, which uses concurrency, we return immediatly to the next line and don't wait for the function to complete. Thus, we can run other functions without waiting. 

He added a call to the **Scanln** function to print all the numbers by **f(0)**. Without this call, the program would have exited before printing anything.

Bringing his point way beyond, he argues that goroutines are very lightweight, one can easily create thousands of them. The whole point is to run processes simultaneously !

Take a look at the code below:
```
func main() {
  for i := 0; i < 10; i++ {
    go f(i)
  }
  var input string
  fmt.Scanln(&input)
}
```

<sub>Doxsey C. , 2020. An Introduction to Programming in Go. https://www.golang-book.com/books/intro</sub>


