---
title: Stateful authentication
date: '2020-12-06'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'Arch-15'
category: 'Architecture'
description: "Let's take a look at Stateful Authentication with Kenneth Choi, Maxim Thomas, and Security Encyclopedia"
---

This article was done using my notes from the following authors.

<sub>Maxim Thomas, (2020). [Stateful vs Stateless Authentication](https://github.com/OpenIdentityPlatform/OpenAM/wiki/Stateful-vs-Stateless-Authentication), Github.</sub></br>
<sub>Security Encyclopedia, (2020).[Stateful Authentication (Session-Based)](https://www.hypr.com/stateful-cloud/).</sub>
<sub>Kenneth Choi, (2018). [Stateful and stateless authentication](https://github.com/OpenIdentityPlatform/OpenAM/wiki/Stateful-vs-Stateless-Authentication), Medium.</sub></br>

### Stateful authentication

Stateful Authentication is a way to verify users by having the backend store the session information, such as user properties.

After successful authentication, the backend generates a random token to send back to the client then creates a user client authenticated session in memory or an internal database, such as Redis.

When the client tries to access the application with a given token, the backend tries to retrieve session data from session storage, checks if session valid and then decides whether the client has access to the desired resource or not.

### Advantages

1. Revoke the session anytime
2. Easy to implement and manage for one-session-sever scenario
3. Session data can be changed later (assume that for a one-session-sever, no inconsistent problem)

### Disadvantages

1. Increasing server overhead: As the number of logged-in users increases, the more server resources are occupied.
2. Fail to scale: If the sessions are distributed in different servers, we need to implement a tracking algorithm to link a specific user session and the specific session sever. 
3. Difficult for 3rd party applications to use your credentials.