---
title: Queues to scale access to data
date: '2020-09-11'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'Arch-13'
category: 'Architecture'
description: "Let's take a look at scaling writes to data with queues with Kate Matsudaira"
---

This article was done using my notes from Kate Matsudaira (2013).

<sub>Kate Matsudaira, (2013), "Scalable Web Architecture and Distributed Systems". In: Amy Brown & Greg Wilson (2013), "The Architecture of Open Source Applications, Volume II: Structure, Scale, and a Few More Fearless Hacks.</sub>

## Queues

Queues allow to manage writes while scaling the data layer. When systems are simple, with minimal processing loads and small databases, writes can be predictably fast; however, in more complex systems writes can take an almost non-deterministically long time.

In the cases where writes, or any task for that matter, may take a long time, achieving performance and availability requires building asynchrony into the system; a common way to do that is with queues.

## Asynchrony to the rescue

A queue is as simple as it sounds: a task comes in, is added to the queue and then workers pick up the next task as they have the capacity to process it.

Queues enable clients to work in an asynchronous manner, providing a strategic abstraction of a client’s request and its response. In an
asynchronous system the client requests a task, the service responds with a message acknowledging the task was received, and then the client can periodically check the status of the task, only requesting the result once it has completed. While the client is waiting for an asynchronous request to be completed it is free to perform other work, even making asynchronous requests of other services.

## Examples

There are quite a few open source queues like [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/), [ActiveMQ](http://activemq.apache.org/), [BeanstalkD](https://beanstalkd.github.io/).
