---
title: Load Balancers to scale access to data
date: '2020-09-10'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'Arch-12'
category: 'Architecture'
description: "Let's take a look at scaling access to data using load balancers with Kate Matsudaira"
---

This article was done using my notes from Kate Matsudaira (2013).

<sub>Kate Matsudaira, (2013), "Scalable Web Architecture and Distributed Systems". In: Amy Brown & Greg Wilson (2013), "The Architecture of Open Source Applications, Volume II: Structure, Scale, and a Few More Fearless Hacks.</sub>

## Building blocks of fast and scalable data access

As applications grow, there are two main challenges: scaling access to the app server and to the database.

Let’s assume you have many terabytes (TB) of data and you want to allow users to access small portions of that data at random. You might consider using memory but it can be very costly to load TBs of data into it. Furthermore, reading from disk is many times slower than from memory. Moreover, even with unique IDs, solving the problem of knowing where to find that little bit of data can be an arduous task.

Load Balancers are one of the options you have to make this issue easier to deal with.

### Load Balancers

Load balancers are a principal part of any architecture, as their role is to distribute load across a set of nodes responsible for servicing requests. This allows multiple nodes to transparently service the same function in a system.

Their main purpose is to handle a lot of simultaneous connections and
route those connections to one of the request nodes, allowing the system to scale to service more requests by just adding nodes.

In a distributed system, load balancers are often found at the very front of the system, such that all incoming requests are routed accordingly. It is not uncommon for a request to be routed to multiple load balancers.

#### Reverse Proxies

Like proxies, some load balancers can also route a request differently depending on the type of request it is. (Technically these are also known as reverse proxies.)

#### Example

One open source software load balancer that has received wide adoption is [HAProxy](http://www.haproxy.org/).