---
title: 'Web API Status Codes'
date: '2020-11-15'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'Api-1'
category: 'API'
description: "Let's take a look at status code for Web APIs with William S. Vincent"
---

This article was done using my notes from William S. Vincent (2019).

<sub>William S. Vincent, (2019), Django for APIs, Build web APIs with Python and Django.</sub>

### Status Code

Once your web browser has executed an HTTP Request on a URL there is no guarantee things will actually work! Thus there is a quite lengthy list of [HTTP Status Codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes) available to accompany each HTTP response.

You can tell the generaltypeof status code based on the following system:

1. 2xx Success - the action requested by the client was received, understood, and accepted,
2. 3xx Redirection - the requested URL has moved,
3. 4xx Client Error - there was an error, typically a bad URL request by the client,
4. 5xx Server Error - the server failed to resolve a request.

### What to remember ? 

There is no need to memorize all the available status codes. With practice you willbecome familiar with the most common ones such as 200 (OK), 201 (Created), 301(Moved Permanently), 404 (Not Found), and 500 (Server Error).

The important thing to remember is that, generally speaking, there are only fourpotential outcomes to any given HTTP request: it worked (2xx), it was redirectedsomehow (3xx), the client made an error (4xx), or the server made an error (5xx).These status codes are automatically placed in the request/response line at the topof every HTTP message.