---
title: What is serialization ? 
date: '2020-10-31'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'Fw-14'
category: 'Framework'
description: "Let's take a look at serialization with Bennet Garner"
---

This article was done using my notes from Benet Garner (2019).

<sub>Bennet Garner, (May 17, 2019), Build a REST API in 30 minutes with Django REST Framework. Medium.</sub>

### REST API with Django

A REST API is a standardized way to provide data to other applications. Those applications can then use the data however they want.

There are a few key options for a REST API request:

**GET** — The most common option, returns some data from the API based on the endpoint you visit and any parameters you provide

**POST** — Creates a new record that gets appended to the database

**PUT** — Looks for a record at the given URI you provide. If it exists, update the existing record. If not, create a new record

**DELETE** — Deletes the record at the given URI

**PATCH** — Update individual fields of a record

Typically, an API is a window into a database. The API backend handles querying the database and formatting the response. What you receive is a static response, usually in JSON format, of whatever resource you requested.

### Django Rest Framework and serialization

The process of querying and converting tabular database values into JSON or another format is called serialization. When you’re creating an API, correct **serialization** of data is the major challenge. This is where Django Rest Framework reallllly shines.

In Django, you define a model for you database using Python and Django's ORM.
```
# models.py

from django.db import models

class Hero(models.Model):
    name = models.CharField(max_length=60)
    alias = models.CharField(max_length=60)    
    
    def __str__(self):
        return self.name
```

The Django REST Framework, then, plays nicely with the Django ORM that’s already doing all the heavy lifting of querying the database. You can serialize your database models to REST-ful formats.

### Serialize our Hero model

The serializer will turn our heroes into a JSON representation so the API user can parse them, even if they’re not using Python. In turn, when a user POSTs JSON data to our API, the serializer will convert that JSON to a Hero model for us to save or validate.

```
# serializers.py

from rest_framework import serializers

from .models import Hero

class HeroSerializer(serializers.HyperlinkedModelSerializer):
    class Meta:
        model = Hero
        fields = ('name', 'alias')
```

### To remember

Serialization is the process of converting a Model to JSON. Using a serializer, we can specify what fields should be present in the JSON representation of the model.