---
title: Proxies to scale access to data
date: '2020-09-08'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'Arch-10'
category: 'Architecture'
description: "Let's take a look at scaling access to data using proxies with Kate Matsudaira"
---

This article was done using my notes from Kate Matsudaira (2013).

<sub>Kate Matsudaira, (2013), "Scalable Web Architecture and Distributed Systems". In: Amy Brown & Greg Wilson (2013), "The Architecture of Open Source Applications, Volume II: Structure, Scale, and a Few More Fearless Hacks.</sub>

## Building blocks of fast and scalable data access

As applications grow, there are two main challenges: scaling access to the app server and to the database.

Let’s assume you have many terabytes (TB) of data and you want to allow users to access small portions of that data at random. You might consider using memory but it can be very costly to load TBs of data into it. Furthermore, reading from disk is many times slower than from memory. Moreover, even with unique IDs, solving the problem of knowing where to find that little bit of data can be an arduous task.

Proxies are one of the options you have to make this issue easier to deal with.

### Proxies

At a basic level, a proxy server is an intermediate piece of hardware/software that receives requests from clients and relays them to the backend origin servers. Typically, proxies are used to filter requests, log requests, or sometimes transform requests (by adding/removing headers, encrypting/decrypting, or compression).

#### Collapsed forwarding

Proxies are also immensely helpful when coordinating requests from multiple servers, providing
opportunities to optimize request traffic from a system-wide perspective. One way to use a proxy to speed up data access is to collapse the same (or similar) requests together into one request, and then return the single result to the requesting clients. This is known as collapsed forwarding.

#### Collapsed and targeted forwarding 

Another great way to use the proxy is to not just collapse requests for the same data, but also to
collapse requests for data that is spatially close together in the origin store (consecutively on disk). Employing such a strategy maximizes data locality for the requests, which can result in decreased request latency.

### Cache and Proxy ?

It is worth noting that you can use proxies and caches together, but generally it is best to put the cache in front of the proxy. This is because the cache is serving data from memory, it is very fast, and it doesn’t mind multiple requests for the same result.

### Examples

If you are looking at adding a proxy to your systems, there are many options to consider; [Squid](http://www.squid-cache.org/) and [Varnish](http://varnish-cache.org/) have both been road tested and are widely used in many production web sites. These proxy solutions offer many optimizations to make the most of client-server communication.