---
title: 'HTTP and Statelessness'
date: '2020-11-15'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'Api-2'
category: 'API'
description: "Let's take a look at HTTP and statelessness with William S. Vincent"
---

This article was done using my notes from William S. Vincent (2019).

<sub>William S. Vincent, (2019), Django for APIs, Build web APIs with Python and Django.</sub>

### Statelenessness

An important point to make about HTTP is that it is a stateless protocol. This means each request/response pair is completely independent of the previous one. There is no stored memory of past interactions, which is known as state in computer science.

Statelessness brings a lot of benefits to HTTP. Since all electronic communication systems have signal loss over time, if we did not have a stateless protocol, things would constantly break if one request/response cycle didn’t go through. As a result HTTP is known as a very resilient distributed protocol.

The downside however is that managing state is really, really important in web applications. State is how a website remembers that you’ve logged in and how an e-commerce site manages your shopping cart. It’s fundamental to how we use modern websites, yet it’s not supported on HTTP itself.

### Modern architecture

Historically state was maintained on the server but it has moved more and more to the client, the web browser, in modern front-end frameworks like React, Angular, and Vue. The client is now responsible for handling the application state. 