---
title: Stateless authentication
date: '2020-12-07'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'Arch-16'
category: 'Architecture'
description: "Let's take a look at Stateless Authentication with Kenneth Choi and The Secret Security Wiki"
---

This article was done using my notes from the following authors.

<sub>The Secret Security Wiki, (2020). [Stateless authentication (token-base authentication)](https://doubleoctopus.com/security-wiki/network-architecture/stateless-authentication/).</sub></br>
<sub>Kenneth Choi, (2018). [Stateful and stateless authentication](https://github.com/OpenIdentityPlatform/OpenAM/wiki/Stateful-vs-Stateless-Authentication), Medium.</sub></br>

### Stateless authentication

Stateless authentication stores the user session data on the client side (browser), through a token. The token is signed by the key of identity provider, such Auth0 or Keycloak, to ensure its integrity and authority.

Because the token can be a self-contained entity that conveys all the required information for authenticating the request, it is often referred to as stateless authentication. In this case, the server side does not need to maintain the state of a user.

After the token is validated by the backend, it is used to establish security context for the client, so the backend can make authorization decisions or audit activity for successive user requests.

Common standards for token-based authentication include JSON Web Tokens (JWT).

### Advantages

1. Lower server overhead: The great number of session data does not store on the server side. 
2. Easy to implement and manage for one-session-sever scenario
3. Good to integrate with 3rd party application.

### Disadvantages

1. Cannot revoke the session anytime: Since the user session is stored at client side, the server does not have any rights to delete the session.
2. Relatively complex to implement for one-session-server scenario.
3. Session data cannot be changed until its expiration time.