---
title: '*args and **kwargs in Python'
date: '2020-07-28'
time: '☕️☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'Lang-25'
category: 'Languages'
tags:
  - 'Python'
description: "Let's take a look at *args and **kwargs with Dan Bader"
socialImage: ''
---

This article was done using my notes from Dan Bader, 2016-2017, Python Tricks: The Book.

<sub>Bader D. (2016-2017). "Python Tricks: The Book. A Buffer of Awesome Python Features</sub>

## \*args and \*\*kwargs

Used as a function parameter, args will collect extra positional arguments as a tuple because the parameter name has a \* prefix.

Likewise, kwargs will collect extra keyword arguments as a dictionary because the parameter name has a \*\* prefix.

```
def foo(*args, **kwargs):
    print(args)
    print(kwargs)

foo(0, 1, 2, 3, 4, name='romain', address='FR')
// (1, 2, 3, 4)
// {'name': 'romain', 'address': 'FR'}

```

## From packing to unpacking

Python offers the ability to “unpack” function arguments from sequences and dictionaries with the \* and \*\* operators.

Let’s define a simple function to work with as an example:

```
def foo(arg1, arg2, arg3):
    print(arg1, arg2, arg3)

```

### Function Argument Unpacking using the \* operator

```
list = [1,2,3]

def foo(arg1, arg2, arg3):
    print(arg1, arg2, arg3)

foo(*list)
// 1, 2, 3
```

Putting a \* before an iterable in a function call will unpack it and pass
its elements as separate positional arguments to the called function.

This technique works for any iterable, including generator expressions.
Using the \* operator on a generator consumes all elements from the generator and passes them to the function:

```
list = [x for x in range(1, 4)]

def foo(arg1, arg2, arg3):
    print(arg1, arg2, arg3)

foo(*list)
// 1, 2, 3
```

### Function Argument Unpacking using the \*\* operator

The \*\* operator also works for unpacking keyword arguments from dictionaries.
Because dictionaries are unordered, this matches up dictionary values and function arguments based on the dictionary keys: the arg1 argument
receives the value associated with the 'arg1' key in the dictionary.

```
dict = {'arg1': 1, 'arg2': 2, 'arg3': 3}

def foo(arg1, arg2, arg3):
    print(arg1, arg2, arg3)


foo(**dict)
// 1, 2, 3
```

### Merging lists and dictionaries with *args and **kwargs

One of the most useful aspect of the * and ** operator is the concatenation of lists or dictionaries. 

```
list1 = [1, 2, 3]
list2 = [4, 5, 6]

masterList = [*list1, *list2]
// [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
```

```
dict1 = {'a': 1, 'b': 2}
dict2 = {'c': 3, 'd': 4}

masterDict = {**dict1, **dict2} 
// {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3, 'd': 4}
```