---
title: Database Indexing
date: '2021-01-09'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'DB-2'
category: 'Database'
description: "Let's take a look at database indexing with Hussein Nasser"
---

This article was done using my notes from:

<sub>Nasser Hussein, (2020), [Introduction to Database Engineering](https://www.udemy.com/course/database-engines-crash-course). Udemy.</sub></br>

### What is an index ?

An index is a data structure that you build and assign on top of an existing table. It basically looks through your table so that to create shortcuts to access data. It exists to avoid Full Table Scan, which are very expensive.

A real like example would a phone book, in which names are organized by letters of the alphabet. These letters form an index allowing users to quickly access to the desired name in the phonebook.

### Key vs Non-Key Column Database Indexing

When you create an index, you are basically creating a data structure that is separated from your table. To build this structure, you pick a field that becomes your query index and that is called a key column. When using a key column to access data, you may reach the nearest index to your data, then you have to reach the table and select the desired field. 

Non-Key columns are very interesting, as you can include a column name in the index itself. Thus, the query will become more efficient. Indeed, you build an index from the name column. If you look for a name in your database using this non-key column index, you will access the desired data faster than using a regular key column index.

### Index Scan vs Index Only Scan

Using an index to look for data, Postgres can run an Index Scan or an Index Only Scan. The idea is pretty simple, if Postgres has to look through the index and then go through the table to reach your desired data, Postgres ran an Index Scan. However if Postgres only needs to look through the index to reach your data, Postgres runs an Index Only Scan.

### Combining Database Indexes for Better Performance

Database engineers often have to combine indexes to increase queries performance. 
Composite indexes are indexes created on the basis of several columns. Thus, these indexes are more efficient to access data in these columns. If you have a composite index on columns A and B, Postgres will use this index to scan data on A and B or A alone. Why ? Because composite indexes are scanned from left to right, as simple as that. Postgres will not use it to scan the B column alone. 