---
title: "Behavior and architecture"
date: "2021-06-10"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "BC-2"
category: "Book Club"
description: "Let's go through Robert C. Martin, Clean Architecture, Chapter 2. A Tale of two value"
---

<sub>Robert C Martin, (2018), "Chapter 2: A Tale of two values ?", Clean Architecture, A craftsman's guide to software structure and design, Pearson Education, Inc..</sub>

## A Tale of two values

Software system provides two different values to the stakeholders: behavior and structure.

### Behavior

Programmers are hired to make machines behave in a way that makes or saves money for the stakeholders. Programmers do this by helping the stakeholders develop a functional specification, then they write code that satisfy those requirements.

### Archictecture

Software was intended to be a way to easily change the behavior of machines.
The difficulty in making such a change should be proportional only to the scope of the change, and not to the shape of the change. However, the shape of the change tends to cause difficulties.


Each new request is harder to fit than the last, because the shape of the system does not match the shape of the request. Software developers often feel as if they are forced to jam square pegs into round holes.

The problem, of course, is the architecture of the system. Therefore architectures should be as shape agnostic are practical.

### Fight for the achitecture 

Business managers and developers tend to favor behaviors over architecture. But it’s the wrong attitude.

Furthermore, the dilemma for software developers is that business managers are not equipped to evaluate the importance of architecture. That’s what software developers were hired to do. Therefore it is the responsibility of the software development team to assert the importance of architecture over the urgency of features.

If architecture comes last, then the system will become ever more costly to develop, and eventually change will become practically impossible for part or all of the system. Architects create an architecture that allows those features and functions to be easily developed, easily modified, and easily extended.
