---
title: "Modular Monolith"
date: "2021-05-11"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Arch-25"
category: "Architecture"
tags:
  - "Architecture"
description: "Let's take a look at modular monolith with Kamil Grzybek"
---

This article was done using my notes from Kamil Gryzbek (2021).

<sub>Kamil Gryzbek, (2021), ["Modular Monolith: A Primer"](http://www.kamilgrzybek.com/design/modular-monolith-primer/).</sub>

### Monolith Architecture

A **Monolith** is a system that has exactly one deployment unit. No less no more. Monolith architecture does not imply that the system is poor designed, not modular or bad. It does not say anything about quality.

### Modular Architecture

Modular Monolith architecture is an explicit name for a Monolith system designed in a modular way. To achieve a high level of modularization each module must be independent, has everything necessary to provide desired functionality (separation by business area), encapsulated and have a well-defined interface/contract.

#### 1. Module must be independent and interchangeable

Dependencies should be kept to a minimum. According to the principle: Loose Coupling, Strong Cohesion. 

To sum up, the module’s independence is determined by three main factors:

1. Number of dependencies,
2. Strength of dependenies,
3. Stability of the modules on which the module depends on.

#### 2. Module must have everything necessary to provide desired functionality

A module in the Modular Monolith is a business module that is able to fully provide a set of desired features. For instance, a business module must provide for its GUI layer, Application logic layer, and data access layer.

#### 3. Module must have defined interface

Well-defined interface means having defined contracts for modules communication. A Contract is what we make available outside so it is very important. It is an “entry point” to our module. 

Good Contract should be unambiguous and contain only what clients of a given contract need. We should keep it stable (to not break our clients) and hide everything else behind it (encapsulation).



