---
title: "SQL vs. NoSQL"
date: "2021-02-05"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Arch-18"
category: "Architecture"
tags:
  - "SQL"
  - "NoSQL"
description: "Let's take a look at SQL and NoSQL characteristics with Design Gurus"
---

This article was done using my notes from:

<sub>Design Gurus, (2021), [SQL vs. NoSQL](https://www.educative.io/courses/grokking-the-system-design-interview/YQlK1mDPgpK). educative.</sub></br>

In the world of databases, there are two main types of solutions: SQL and NoSQL (or relational databases and non-relational databases).

Relational databases are structured and have predefined schemas like phone books that store phone numbers and addresses. Non-relational databases are unstructured, distributed, and have a dynamic schema like file folders that hold everything.

## SQL

Relational databases store data in rows and columns. Each row contains all the information about one entity and each column contains data point about that entity. Some of the most popular relational databases are MySQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server, SQLite, Postgres, and MariaDB.

## NoSQL

#### Key-Value Stores

Data is stored in an array of key-value pairs. The ‘key’ is an attribute name which is linked to a ‘value’. Well-known key-value stores include Redis and Memcache.

#### Document Databases

In these databases, data is stored in documents (instead of rows and columns in a table) and these documents are grouped together in collections. Each document can have an entirely different structure. Document databases include the CouchDB and MongoDB.

#### Wide-Column Databases

Instead of ‘tables', in columnar databases we have column families, which are containers for rows. Unlike relational databases, we don’t need to know all the columns up front and each row doesn’t have to have the same number of columns. Columnar databases are best suited for analyzing large datasets - big names include Cassandra and HBase.

#### Graph Databases

These databases are used to store data whose relations are best represented in a graph. Examples of graph database include Neo4J and InfiniteGraph

## SQL VS. NoSQL - Which one to use?

When it comes to database technology, there’s no one-size-fits-all solution. That’s why many businesses rely on both relational and non-relational databases for different needs.

#### Reasons to use SQL database

1. **We need to ensure ACID compliance**. ACID compliance reduces anomalies and protects the integrity of your database by prescribing exactly how transactions interact with the database.

2. **Your data is structured and unchanging**.

#### Reasons to use NoSQL database

1. **Storing large volumes of data that often have little to no structure**. A NoSQL database sets no limits on the types of data we can store together and allows us to add new types as the need changes.

2. **Making the most of cloud computing and storage**. Cloud-based storage is an excellent cost-saving solution but requires data to be easily spread across multiple servers to scale up. NoSQL databases like Cassandra are designed to be scaled across multiple data centers out of the box.

3. **Rapid development**. NoSQL is extremely useful for rapid development as it doesn’t need to be prepped ahead of time.