---
title: Database Partitioning
date: '2021-01-10'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'DB-3'
category: 'Database'
description: "Let's take a look at database partitioning with Hussein Nasser"
---

This article was done using my notes from:

<sub>Nasser Hussein, (2020), [Introduction to Database Engineering](https://www.udemy.com/course/database-engines-crash-course). Udemy.</sub></br>

### What is partitioning ?

Partitioning consists in breaking a table down to smaller pieces in order to work with less data. In general, with often speak about horizontal partitioning. Here, the idea would be to partition a table of a million rows into 5 tables of 200k rows.

### Horizontal partitioning vs Vertical partitioning ?

Horizontal partitioning is the action of splitting rows into smaller groups of rows. We will call the resulting groups "partitions".

Vertical partitioning is the action of splitting columns of a table into smaller groups of columns. We call these resulting groups "partitions" as well. 

### Partitioning Types ?

1. By range: partition according to intervals of values, such as Dates, ids for instance.
2. By list: partition by discrete values, such as countries, zip codes, etc.
3. By hash: partition using a hash functions.

### Horizontal partitioning vs Sharding ? 

Horizontal partitioning splits a big table into multiple tables in the same database. Whereas sharding splits a big table into multiple tables across multiple database servers.                

### Props of partitioning ? 

Partitioning improves query performance when accessing a single partition or fewer partititions.
Partitioning allows to archive old data that are barely accessed into cheap storage.

### Cons of partitioning ? 

Updates may move rows from a partition to another, which is slow and may fail. 
Inefficient queries could accidentally scan all partitions resulting in slower performance. 
Schema changes can become challenging after partitioning