---
title: "What is design and architecture ?"
date: "2021-06-07"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "BC-1"
category: "Book Club"
description: "Let's go through Robert C. Martin, Clean Architecture, Chapter 1. What is design and architecture ?"
---

<sub>Robert C Martin, (2018), "Chapter 1: What is design and architecture ?", Clean Architecture, A craftsman's guide to software structure and design, Pearson Education, Inc..</sub>

## What is design and architecture ? 

### Design and architecture are misunderstood

Unfortunately, design and architecture are often misunderstood. Two wrong common definitions are pretty widespread. 
**architecture**: context of something at a high level separated from lower-level details.
**design**: imply structures and decisions at a lower level.

These definitions are nonsensical: Low level and high level decisions are tied up together, they are part of the whole design. Designing a software, "There is simply a continuum of decisions from the highest to the lowest levels.".

### What makes a good software ?

A good software can be measured by the amount of effort required to meet the needs of the customer.

### How can we tell a bad software ? 

Bad software takes the form: 
1. Increase in engineering staff
2. Constant productivity marginal growth (Slowly increasing to decreasing)
3. Increase in cost / line of code ratio

### What goes wrong building software ?

Often, hasty software delivery is the issue. "The only way to go fast, is to go well.".
The author speaks about engineers "overconfidence", not enough long-term thoughts is put into the code. Engineers tend to focus on deleviry instead of focusing on quality. Sadly, a common idiom in the field is "Testing is doubting".

### Final words

Professionals should take the quality of its software architecture seriously. To minimize effort and maximize productivity, you need to know which attributes of system architecture lead to that end.
This book decribes what good architectures and designs look like.

