---
title: "Functional Programming"
date: "2021-06-19"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "BC-6"
category: "Book Club"
description: "Let's go through Robert C. Martin, Clean Architecture, Chapter 6. Functional Programming"
---

<sub>Robert C Martin, (2018), "Chapter 6: Functional Programming", Clean Architecture, A craftsman's guide to software structure and design, Pearson Education, Inc..</sub>

## Functional Programming

Variables in functional languages do not vary.

### Immutability and architecture

All the problems that we face in concurrent applications (all the problems we face in applications that require multiple threads, and multiple processors) cannot happen if there are no mutable variables.

As an architect, you should be very interested in issues of concurrency. You want to make sure that the systems you design will be robust in the presence of multiple threads and processors.

### Segregation of mutability

The point is that well-structured applications will be segregated into those components that do not mutate variables and those that do. This kind of segregation is supported by the use of appropriate disciplines to protect those mutated variables.

Architects would be wise to push as much processing as possible into the immutable components, and to drive as much code as possible out of those components that must allow mutation.

### Event Sourcing

Event sourcing is a strategy wherein we store the transactions, but not the state. When state is required, we simply apply all the transactions from the beginning of time.

If we have enough storage and enough processor power, we can make our applications entirely immutable (and, therefore, entirely functional).

