---
title: "Encryption and Signing"
date: "2021-04-21"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Sec-19"
category: "Cybersecurity"
tags:
  - "Cybersecurity"
description: "Let's take a look at encryption and signing with Nic Jackson"
---

This article was done using my notes from Nic Jackson (2017).

<sub>Nic Jackson, (2017), "Encryption and signing", in Building Microservices with Go, Packt Publishing.</sub>

### Symmetric-key encryption

Symmetric-key encryption is also called secret-key or conventional cryptography: one key is used for both the encryption and decryption of the data.

For a remote end to be able to decrypt this information, it must first have the key, and this key must be securely held as a single compromise of one server will lead to the compromise of all servers who share this key.

### Public-key cryptography

Public-key cryptography uses a pair of keys for encryption; you will also hear it called asymmetric encryption. The public key is used for encrypting information while the private can only be used for decrypting.

Because there is no way to determine the private key from the public, it is common that public keys will be published to the world.

### Digital signatures

Public-key cryptography also gives us the capability of using digital signatures. A digital signature works by encrypting a message with a private key and then transferring the signed message. If the message can be decrypted with the public key, then the message must have originated from the holder of a private key.

### X.509 digital certificates

One problem with public keys is that you must be careful that the key you think belongs to a recipient is owned by the recipient.

An attacker could pose a fake public key as what you believe to be your trusted recipient; however, they could replace this with their keys. This would mean that the message you think has been transferred securely could, in fact, be decrypted and read by a malicious third party.

To avoid these issues, digital certificates exist, simplifying the task of establishing whether a public key belongs to the reported owner.

#### A digital certificate contains three things:

1. A public key
2. Certificate information such as the owner's name or ID
3. One or more digital signatures

The thing that makes a certificate trustworthy is the digital signatures. The certificate is signed by a trusted third party or certificate authority (CA) which vouches for your identity and that your public key belongs to you.

### TLS - Transport Layer Security

TLS works using symmetrical encryption, where the client and the server both have a key which is used for encryption and decryption.

TLS uses asymmetrical encryption in the first part of the handshake. The client retrieves the certificate containing the public key from the server and generates a random number; it uses the public key to encrypt this random number and sends it back to the server. Now that both parties have the random number, they use this to generate symmetrical keys which are used for encrypting and decrypting the data over the transport.

