---
title: ACID properties in database systems
date: '2021-01-01'
time: '☕️☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'DB-1'
category: 'Database'
description: "Let's take a look at ACID properties with Hussein Nasser"
---

This article was done using my notes from:

<sub>Database Guide, (2021), [What does ACID mean in Database Systems?](https://database.guide/what-is-acid-in-databases/). Database.Guide.</sub></br>
<sub>Nasser Hussein, (2020), [Introduction to Database Engineering](https://www.udemy.com/course/database-engines-crash-course). Udemy.</sub></br>

### Introduction to ACID

ACID are four properties of relational databases. There are Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability.

### Transaction

A transaction is a collection of queries, one or more queries. It can be described as one unit of work. For example, an account deposit could be translated into a SELECT followed by two UPDATEs.

According to Database Guide (2021), "a transaction is a single logical operation that may consist of one or many steps. For example, transferring money between bank accounts (i.e. debiting one account and crediting the other) is a transaction.".

### Atomicity

An atom is the smallest piece that cannot be divided. A transaction should be atomic. It means that all queries embarked on a transaction should succeed. If one fails, all should be rollbacked.

According to Database Guide (2021), "Atomicity means that you guarantee that either all of the transaction succeeds or none of it does. You don’t get part of it succeeding and part of it not. If one part of the transaction fails, the whole transaction fails. With atomicity, it’s either “all or nothing”."

### Isolation

Can my inflight transaction see changes made by other transactions ? Isolation means that no transaction will be affected by any other transaction. So a transaction cannot read data from any other transaction that has not yet completed.

### Consistency

A lack of atomicity or isolation leads to inconsistency in your data. Consistent data means that "All data will be valid according to all defined rules, including any constraints, cascades, and triggers that have been applied on the database." (Database Guide, 2021).

Talking about consistency in reads is about answer this question: If a transaciton committed a change will a new transaction immediately see the change ?  

### Durability

Durability means that committed transacitons must be persisted in a durable non-volatile storage. In simple terms, if I commited a transaction and I lost power involving a database shutdown. If restart the database, the value is better be there.

For example, Redis and Memcached are not durable database, they both are in memory databases.

According to Database Guide (2021), "Any changes from the transaction must be stored permanently. If the system tells the user that the transaction has succeeded, the transaction must have, in fact, succeeded.".

### Eventual Consistency

Eventual consistency in reads is a bit of a new term that has to be linked to the rise of NoSQL databases. Both relational and non relational databases suffer from eventual consistency. It is a kind of a grey area. 

Both retional and non relation databases suffer from consistency in reads following an update. In real life, you need to scale horizontally or introduce caching. Scaling involves adding caching, adding nodes to your leader node. As a consequence, eventual consistency is often the norm.  