---
title: "Software Quality"
date: "2021-10-05"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "I-1"
category: "Software Skills"
description: "Let's take a deep dive into attitude towards software quality"
---

## Automation

Continuous delivery is a practice where you automatically ensure that software can be release into production at any time. With continous delivery you use a build pipeline to automatically test your software and deploy it to your testing and productione environments.

Ensuring software quality involves automating everything from build to tests, deployment and infrastructure.

## Automatic code quality check

According to McIntosh, Shane, et al. (2014) "Automated code review software checks source code for compliance with a predefined set of rules or best practices". 

Automated code quality checks can be subdivided into 2 main categories:
1. **Linting**: According to the SublimeLinter Community (2020) "lint, or a linter, is a static code analysis tool tused to flag programming errors, bugs, stylistic erros and suspicious constructs".
It thrives to ensure that code conventions, security, and cognitive and cyclomatic complexity are respected within the code base. 

For linters in Go, you may want to take a look at [golangci](https://golangci-lint.run/), which works as a Go linters aggregator. 
For code quality and security, you want to take a look at at [SonarQube](sonarqube.org). 


2. **Automated tests**: Automated testing is a process that validates if software is functioning appropriately and meeting requirements before it is released into production. It executes examinations of the software, report outcomes and compare results with earlier test runs. Code coverage is a metric that tells about how much of the application is being tested. 

The "Test Pyramid" is a known approach to testing strategy. It tells to group software tests into buckets of different granularity. Tests should be divided in 3 categories: 1. unit tests (individual component or functionality in isolated conditions), 2. integration tests (code interaction with external components), and 3. end-to-end tests (user centric, an entire application is functioning as required).

## Observability and Monitoring 

According to Ismail Egilmez (2020), observability measures how well you can understand a system’s internal states from its external outputs. An observable system allows you to understand and measure the internals of a system, so that you can more easily navigate from the effects to the cause. Observability is based on logs, metrics, and traces.

Monitoring allows you to watch and understand your system’s state using a predefined set of metrics. Monitoring is crucial for analyzing long term trends, building dashobards, and for alerting. Thus monitoring gives a reasonably good view of a system's health and panoramic view of a system behavior and performance. 

Observability and monitoring complement each other. Monitoring tells you when something is wrong, while observability enables you to understand why. You can only monitor a system that’s observable.


## Further aspects that can be developed

1. Application structure and self-documentation
2. Peer reviews to ensure maintainability and readability
3. Automated load and stress tests
4. Health checks ensuring roll backs to stable version in production


### References

<sub>Gillis Alexander S. (2021), "Automated Testing", Search Software Quality.</sub>

<sub>Ismalil Egilmez (2020), "Monitoring vs. Observability: What’s the Difference?", The New Stack</sub>
<sub>McIntosh, Shane, et al. (2014), "The impact of code review coverage and code review participation on software quality: A case study of the qt, vtk, and itk projects.", 11th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories</sub>

<sub>The SublimeLinter Community (2020) "About SublimeLinter"</sub>

<sub>Vocke Ham (2018). The Practical Test Pyramid, martinFowler.com</sub>
