---
title: "Key Characteristics of Distributed Systems"
date: "2021-02-04"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Arch-17"
category: "Architecture"
tags:
  - "Scalability"
  - "Reliability"
  - "Availabilty"
  - "Efficienciy"
  - "Manageability"
description: "Let's take a look at scalability, reliability, availability, efficiency and manageability with Design Gurus"
---

This article was done using my notes from:

<sub>Design Gurus, (2021), [Key Characteristics of Distributed Systems](https://www.educative.io/courses/grokking-the-system-design-interview/YQWGjlZZVz9). educative.</sub></br>

Key characteristics of a distributed system include **Scalability, Reliability, Availability, Efficiency, and Manageability**.

## Scalability

Scalability is the capability of a system, process, or a network to grow and manage increased demand. Any distributed system that can continuously evolve in order to support the growing amount of work is considered to be scalable.

### Horizontal vs. Vertical Scaling

Horizontal scaling means that you scale by adding more servers into your pool of resources whereas Vertical scaling means that you scale by adding more power (CPU, RAM, Storage, etc.) to an existing server.

## Reliability

By definition, reliability is the probability a system will fail in a given period. In simple terms, a distributed system is considered reliable if it keeps delivering its services even when one or several of its software or hardware components fail. 

One of the main characteristics of any distributed system, since in such systems any failing machine can always be replaced by another healthy one, ensuring the completion of the requested task.

## Availability

By definition, availability is the time a system remains operational to perform its required function in a specific period. It is a simple measure of the percentage of time that a system, service, or a machine remains operational under normal conditions. 

Reliability is availability over time considering the full range of possible real-world conditions that can occur.

## Efficiency

To understand how to measure the efficiency of a distributed system, let’s assume we have an operation that runs in a distributed manner and delivers a set of items as result. Two standard measures of its efficiency are the response time (or latency) that denotes the delay to obtain the first item and the throughput (or bandwidth) which denotes the number of items delivered in a given time unit (e.g., a second). 

## Manageability

Another important consideration while designing a distributed system is how easy it is to operate and maintain. Serviceability or manageability is the simplicity and speed with which a system can be repaired or maintained.