---
title: "Structured Programming"
date: "2021-06-12"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "BC-4"
category: "Book Club"
description: "Let's go through Robert C. Martin, Clean Architecture, Chapter 4. Structured Programming"
---

<sub>Robert C Martin, (2018), "Chapter 4: Structured Programming", Clean Architecture, A craftsman's guide to software structure and design, Pearson Education, Inc..</sub>

## Structured Programming

Structured programming was discovered by Esdger Wybe Dijkstra in 1968. In a few words, "Structured programming imposes discipline on direct transfer of control".

### Functional decomposition

Structured programming allows modules to be recursively decomposed into provable units, which in turn means that modules can be functionally decomposed.
That is, you can take a large-scale problem statement and decompose it into high-level functions. Each of those functions can then be decomposed into lower-level functions, ad infinitum. Moreover, each of those decomposed functions can be represented using the restricted control structures of structured programming (if/then/else and do/while/until constructs).

### Tests

Software is like a science. We show correctness by failing to prove incorrectness.
Such proofs of incorrectness can be applied only to provable programs. As such, Dijkstra advocated against the use of unrestrained jumps (goto statements) making programs untestable. 

Structured programming forces us to recursively decompose a program into a set of small provable functions. We can then use tests to try to prove those small provable functions incorrect. If such tests fail to prove incorrectness, then we deem the functions to be correct enough for our purposes.

### Conclusion

It is this ability to create falsifiable units of programming that makes structured programming valuable today.

At every level, from the smallest function to the largest component, software is like a science and, therefore, is driven by falsifiability. Software architects strive to define modules, components, and services that are easily falsifiable (testable).