---
title: "Mediator vs. Broker : Event-Driven Architecture"
date: "2021-05-09"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "Arch-24"
category: "Architecture"
tags:
  - "Architecture"
description: "Let's take a look at variations in event-driven architecture with Rachel Roumeliotis"
---

This article was done using my notes from Rachel Roumeliotis (2015).

<sub>Rachel Roumeliotis, (2015), "Variations in event-driven architecture. Find out if mediator or broker topology is right for you", in Radar, O'REILLY.</sub>

### Event-Driven Architecture

As Roumeliotis (2015) explains "The event-driven architecture pattern is a popular distributed asynchronous architecture pattern used to produce highly scalable applications. It is also highly adaptable and can be used for both small and large, complex applications. The pattern is made up of highly decoupled, single-purpose event processing components that asynchronously receive and process events.".

The event-driven architecture pattern consists of two main topologies, the mediator and the broker. 

1. **The mediator topology** is used to orchestrate multiple steps within an event through a central mediator.
2. **The broker topology** is used when you want to chain events together without the use of a central mediator.

### Mediator Topology

The mediator topology is useful for events that have multiple steps and require some level of orchestration to process the event.

The event mediator receives the initial events and orchestrates that events by sending additional asynchronous events to event channels to execute each step of the process.

### Broker topology

The broker topology differs from the mediator topology in that there is no central event mediator; rather, the message flow is distributed across the event processor components in a chain-like fashion through a lightweight message broker.

This topology is useful when you have a relatively simple event processing flow and you do not want (or need) central event orchestration.