---
title: Database Sharding
date: '2021-01-11'
time: '☕️'
template: 'post'
draft: false
slug: 'DB-4'
category: 'Database'
description: "Let's take a look at database sharding with Hussein Nasser"
---

This article was done using my notes from:

<sub>Nasser Hussein, (2020), [Introduction to Database Engineering](https://www.udemy.com/course/database-engines-crash-course). Udemy.</sub></br>

### What is sharding ?

Sharding is the action of partitioning a table into multiple databases. You would throw multiple rows from a table into different databases based on a reference key.

Once you know on which server database is your data, you connect to it. But how would you know your data is on which server ?

### Consistent hashing

The idea of consistent hashing is that you take in an input (any user provided data) that you want to query on, and you make a hash out of it. The given hash will give you the instance server.

### Horizontal partitioning vs Sharding ?

Horizontal partitioning splits a big table into multiple tables in the same database. Whereas sharding splits a big table into multiple tables across multiple database servers.

### Pros of sharding ? 

1. The main pros of sharding is scalibity, you are essentially scaling horizontally. 
2. You also improve your security. Users can access certain shards, while not the others. 
3. Your queries will be more efficient as the indexes are getting smaller in size. 

### Cons of sharding ? 

1. The client are getting more complicated as it has to be aware of the shards. 
2. Transactions across shards are not very effective as atomic transactions are impossible across several databases.
3. Rollbacks are also very hard to implement across several databases. 
4. Schema changes are also hard to implement as they have to be implemented on all databases.
5. Are joins possible across several databases ? It is not the case with horizontal partitioning. 



