---
title: "Clean Code: Elements to take away"
date: "2021-09-05"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "BC-12"
category: "Book Club"
description: "Let's go through Robert C. Martin, Clean Code, A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship"
---

<sub>Robert C Martin, (2009), Clean Code, A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship, Pearson Education, Inc.</sub>

A nice Clean Code cheat sheet can be found on this Github [repository](https://gist.github.com/wojteklu/73c6914cc446146b8b533c0988cf8d29). 

Well written code is considered as Clean if it can be understood easily, by everyone in the team. Thus, Clean code can be read and improved by any developer other than its original author. With Clean Code comes understandability, readibility, changeability, extensibility, and maintainability.

## General Rules

While writing code follow standard conventions. Clean code should be simple, as in Keep It Simple Stupid. As a rule of thumbs, simpler is always better. A developer thrives to reduce complexity as much as possible. 

Boy Scout rule maintaining codebase, always leave the campground cleaner than you found it. Futhermore, always find the root cause of a problem before fixing anything.

## Names Rules

Choose descriptive and unambiguous names. This is what makes code self-documenting. Make meaningful distinction between chose names. Use pronounceable names. As such, the code should roughly read like plain English.  Use searchable names. Replace magic numbers with named constants. Coding in “real-world” terms will help make your code read in that way.

## Function Rules

Functions should be small and do only one thing. Functions should receive a few number of arguments and have no side effects. Finally, don't use flag arguments. Split method into several independent methods that can be called without the use of a flag.

## Comments Rules

Comments do not save a bad code. One of the most common reasons for the comments is because the code is bad. As such, if you're thinking about writing a comment, then the code should be refactored. Always try to explain yourself in code

With this in mind, if you really want to use comments: Don't be redundant, don't add obvious noise. If you want to comment out code, just remove it. Comments should be used as explantion of intent, clarification of intent, clarification of code, and as warning of consequences.

## Objects and Data structures

Objects hide the data abstraction and expose methods that operate the data. Whereas, data structures expose your data and do not have significant methods. Hybrid structures should be avoided. Objects should be small and do one thing. Base class should know nothing about their derivatives. It is better to have many functions than to pass some code into a function to select a behavior. On a class, you should prefer non-static methods to static methods.

## Tests Rules

If it isn’t tested, it’s broken. Tests should feature one assert per test. Tests should be readable, fasts, independent, and repeatable.

## Code Smells

This nicely organized list comes from the following [repository](https://gist.github.com/wojteklu/73c6914cc446146b8b533c0988cf8d29#code-smells). Props to [Wojtek Lukaszuk](https://github.com/wojteklu).

1. Rigidity: The software is difficult to change. A small change causes a cascade of subsequent changes.
2. Fragility: The software breaks in many places due to a single change.
3. Immobility: You cannot reuse parts of the code in other projects because of involved risks and high effort.
4. Needless Complexity.
5. Needless Repetition.
6. Opacity: The code is hard to understand.