---
title: "Replication"
date: "2022-02-04"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "BC-17"
category: "Book Club"
description: "Let's go through Martin Kleppmann (2016), Designing Data Intensive applications, Chapter 5. Replication"
---

<sub>Martin Kleppmann (2016), Designing Data Intensive applications, O′Reilly.</sub>


<sub>Kunal Cholera (2019), [Chapter 5. Replication. Designing Data Intensive applications book review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8-dJt2t1vH4&list=PL4KdJM8LzAMecwInbBK5GJ3Anz-ts75RQ&index=5).</sub>

## Replication

Replication involves sharing information so as to ensure consistency between redundant resources.

### Why replication is important ?

Scaling applications involves creating redundant systems. For example, you would want millions of users to be handled through several instances of a backend. The data flowing would also have to be stored in several databases. 

As such, if a backend instance goes down, the data stored in a database will have to be passed to the another database. This sync process is called replication.

## Master-slave replication

The master serves reads and writes, replicating writes to one or more slaves, which serve only reads. If the master goes offline, the system can continue to operate in read-only mode until a slave is promoted to a master or a new master is provisioned. For a deeper dive, have a look at this [article](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer#master-master-replication).

Replication lag is a good metric to measure how far behind replicas are from master. In general, the leader is responsible for replication. Data can be replicated synchronously or asynchronously. It will have consequent impact over durability, availability, and latency. 

## Multi-leader replication

The system offers redundant master-slave over data centers. Masters handle reads and writes, while their slaves handle reads only. It is based on a classic master-slave replication architecture, but applied to several master-slaves.

Data centers fail over with conflict resolution is quite important area in this architecutre. How to make sure that reads and writes are properly handled across different data centers ? Strategies need to be implemented to handle such scenarios. 

## Leader-less replication

There are no masters in this architecutre. The application owner is responsible to read and write from / to all the replicas. The application owner has to handle conflict resolution between replicas unconsistency.

