---
title: "Just enough Domain-Driven Design"
date: "2022-04-06"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "BC-31"
category: "Book Club"
description: "Let's go through Sam Newman (2019), Monolith to Microservices, Chapter 1. Just Enough Microservices"
---

<sub>Sam Newman (2019), Monolith to Microservices, O′Reilly.</sub>

<sub>Eric Evans (2004), Domain-Driven Design Complexity in the Heart of Software, Addison-Wesley.</sub>

## Just enough Domain-Driven Design

Modeling services around a business domain has significant advantages for a microservice architecture. Eric Evans (2004) presented a serie of ideas that help represent the problem domain. 

### Aggregate

In DDD, an aggregate is a representation of a real domain concept, e.g an Order, Invoice, Stock Item, etc. Aggregates typically have a lify cycle around them, which opens them up to being implemented as a state machine. We want to treat aggregates as self-contained units. We want to ensure that the code that handles the state transitions of an aggregate are grouped together, along with the state itself. 

A single microservice will handle the life cycle and data storage of one or more different type of aggregates. If a functonality in another service wants to change one of these aggregates, it needs to either directly request a change in that aggregate, or else have the aggregate itself react to other things in the system to initiate its own state transitions. 

### Bounded Context

A bounded context typically represents a larger organizational boundary inside an organization. Bounded contexts hide implementation details. Bounded contexts contain one or more aggregates. Some aggregates maay be exposed outside the bounded context; others may be hidden internally.

### Mapping aggregates and bounded contexts to microservices

Both the aggregate and the bounded context give us units of cohesion with well defined interfaces with the wider system. 
- an Aggregate is a self-contained state machine that focuses on a single domain concept
- a Bounded Conntext is a collection of associated aggregates with an explicit interface to the wide world.

Both can work well as service boundaries. 