---
title: "Consistency and Consensus"
date: "2022-02-16"
time: "☕️"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "BC-21"
category: "Book Club"
description: "Let's go through Martin Kleppmann (2016), Designing Data Intensive applications, Chapter 9. Consistency and Consensus "
---

<sub>Martin Kleppmann (2016), Designing Data Intensive applications, O′Reilly.</sub>


<sub>Kunal Cholera (2019), [Chapter 9. Consistency and Consensus. Designing Data Intensive applications book review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yIvft09RTAg).</sub>

## Consistency and Consensus

In a distributed system, machines need to agree on what can be considered as a valid transaction. It is crucial
for the validaty of data accross the system. How is consistency and consensus achieve in a distributed system ?
The 3 following key elements, working together allows to maintain consistency and consensus over a distributed DB system.

### Real life solution: Zookeeper

Among many other things, [Zookeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/) provides a consensus algorithm. 
It provides linearizability: it guarantees that the leader, accross multiples machines and takes decisions for slave machines, is actually the leader. 

### Linearizability

The key concept is that in a distributed system, actions taken should be treated in a linear fashion, as if they were ordered at a higher level. In a system, we need a way to distinguish what happened and what happened after that.

### Two phase commits (atomic commits)

Two phase commits take the following steps: 

1. A prepare phase, which sould come to the conclusion that a commit should be triggered or not. It verifies the state of the database and allows subsequent actions from there. The prepare stage can abort the whole running transaction.

2. If the prepare stage returns that the transaction can be committed. The commit stage starts and should only return that everything went fine and the new state has been applied to the database.

The prepare stage will have an impact over distributed data centers. The coordinator (e.g Zookepper), will then trigger the commit stage on replicas according to the prepare stage result.

### Lamport Timestamp & total order broadcast

The [Lamport Timestamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lamport_timestamp) is a logical order algorithm. In a system with multiples DBs with replicas, you have access to variables (counter ID, Node ID) allowing ordering accross every replicas. It gives a clear understanding of what happened first and what happened later.